Intoduction

Cyber crime is not an old sort of crime to the world. It is defined as
any criminal activity which takes place on or over the medium of computers or
internet or other technology recognised by the Information Technology Act.
Cyber crime is the most prevalent crime playing a devastating role in Modern
India. Not only the criminals are causing enormous losses to the society and
the government but are also able to conceal their identity to a great extent.
There are number of illegal activities which are committed over the internet by
technically skilled criminals. Taking a wider interpretation it can be said that,
Cyber crime includes any illegal activity where computer or internet is either a
tool or target or both.The term cyber crime may be judicially interpreted in some judgments
passed by courts in India, however it is not defined in any act or statute passed
by the Indian Legislature.

Cybercrime encompasses any criminal act 
dealing with computers and networks. It 
includes crime conducted through the Internet. 
The Internet is basically the network of 
networks used across for communication and 
sharing of data. Cybercrime also known as 
the computer crime is the use of an instrument 
for illegal ends, such as committing fraud, 
trafficking in child pornography and 
intellectual property, stealing identities, or 
violating privacy.With the advancement of the Internet 
technologies like the 2G and 3G, the global 
village is effectively sharing and 
communicating vital data(s) across the 
network. However, there are some who are 
intentionally trying to track and extract the 
vital and confidential information illegally for 
their personal use or for the financial 
achievement and many more.


II. SOME CYBER ATTACK TOOLS AND
METHODS
There are so many types of attacks in the cyberspace.
Therefore, computer scientists should be able to
protect computers from them. Attackers use these
attacks and spoil computers and networks by the
ways of changing, destroying, cutting the services 
International Journal of Advances in Science Engineering and Technology, ISSN: 2321-9009, Vol-4, Iss-2, Spl. Issue-2 May.-2016
Cyber Security, Tools And Methods of Cyber Threats, Dimension of Cyber Threats at the Present Time and Cyber Armies
218
and leaking information. These attacks can harm
people, organisations and public bodies. They can
cause financial damages and loss of reputations.
In the cyberspace, most of these threats appears with
more than one variable. Because of
multidimensionality of threats, cyber defence has to
be multidimensionality, as well. In cyberspace, every
move should be in secret. But solving of advanced
security programs require associations. In this part of
article, cyber attack tools and methods will be
explained.

2.1. Viruses
Viruses are computer softwares which change
themselves as system files or programs. Viruses are
special malicious softwares that set-off to other files
and spread. The first virus according to records is a
boot sector virus named “Brain” and it has appeared
in 1986 (Graham & Howard, 2010). Basic principle
of loading viruses is that the viruses need to be
activated by users. Else they can’t load themselves.
Viruses generally set-off to systems with the ways of
opening e-mails and running USBs automatically.

2.2. Worms
Worms are malicious softwares that copy themselves
from one device to another as viruses. Their basic
difference from the viruses is that worms don’t need
to be activated by users. Worms especially capture
functions thattransport files and data. After they setoff the system, they keep spreading themselves. The
most dangerous characteristic of worms is their
substantially reproduction abilities. They use methods
of transportation data and files in setted-off systems
and they send themselves to every e-mail in all
systems that are in contact with setted-off systems.
Because of that network traffic can be too slower.
Especially in early on they are created, security
softwares can’t know them so they spread so fast and
they influence network traffic negatively. Because of
that, these influential worms are used in cyber attacks
intensely. Because worms doesn’t need a program or
file to spread, worms can drive tunnels in systems and
they provide opportunity of capturing remote access
(Virüs, SolucanveTruvaAtıNedir?, 2012).

2.3. Trojan Horses
Trojan horses are the computer programs which
presents themselves as they have beneficial functions
but at the same time they enclose malicious functions
to bypass the security mechanisms and sometimes
they exploit authorisations of legitimate system units
(Kissel (Ed.), 2011). Generally Trojan horses are
presented as free softwares and they set-off the
systems by downloading and loading by users.
Generally Trojan horses provide opportunity of
capturing remote access. Therefore, they provide
opportunity of using computers as zombie computers,
either. Best way of being protected from Trojan
horses is not loading of programs that have unknown
sources.

2.4. Rootkits
Rootkits are the computer programs which are set-off
the system, hide themselves among running
processes, provide opportunity of capturing remote
access and hard to find
(UlusalSiberOlaylaraMüdahaleMerkezi, 2014).
Objectives of rootkits are not making systems slower
or spreading. Their objectives are to establish
complete dominance on computers and hide
themselves.
Rootkits set-off the systems with the way of running
senior authority. In addition, they set-off in multiuser
systems with the way of gaining root privileges by
root aperture.

2.5. Spywares
Spywares are computer softwares that created for
spying on computers. Spywares collect important
information of users and process of users without
user’s knowledge and they provide opportunity of
these informations sending to ill-wishers
(UlusalSiberOlaylaraMüdahaleMerkezi, 2014).
Spywares don’t need to spread like viruses and
worms. Their objectives are ensuring confidentiality
of themselves and collecting information. They
generally install in free versions of programs and the
computer warn when they are installed. But generally
users don’t care about warnings and install spywares
unconsciously.

2.6. Denial of Service(DOS)
Denial of Service is inhibition of users access and
making that the system can not provide service. In
some conditions, service may not stop but it
slowdowns and system doesn’t mean anything for
providing service. In denial of service attacks,
network sources of host computer are exhausted and
it is expected to become unable to respond requests
from the system. If denial of service attacks are
carried out from more than one resources, it is named
as distributed denial of service(DDOS). Denial of
service attacks can be made as method of occupy the
network or making the system unavailable by
physical damage.

Cybercrimes 

[7]Cybercrime encompasses a wide range of 
crimes including stealing people’s identity, 
fraud and financial crimes, [2] pornography, 
selling contraband items, downloading illegal 
files etc. According to the authors in [2] and 
[8], any crime involving a computer and 
Internet is called cyber crime. Some of the 
popular and alarming crimes in the cyber 
world are discussed below:

A. Financial Crimes
With the increasing demand of the on-line 
banking, the financial crimes have become 
very alarming. Financial crimes include credit 
card frauds, stealing money from on-line 
banks etc. The criminals of credit card fraud 
get information from their victims often by 
impersonating a Government official or people 
from financial organizations asking for their 
credit information. The victims fall prey to this 
without proper inquiries and give away their 
credit card information to these criminals. In 
this ways, criminals may steal their identity 
and the consequences are mostly financially 
damaging.

C. Drug Trafficking
[2] Drug traffickers contribute a major part of 
cyber crime to sell narcotics using the latest 
technologies for encrypting mails. [7] They 
arrange where and how to make the exchange, 
mostly using couriers. Since there is no 
personal communication between the buyer 
and dealer, these exchanges are more 
comfortable for intimidated people to buy 
illegal drugs and even other items.

D. Cyber Terrorism
[7]Terrorism acts which are committed in 
cyberspace are called cyber terrorism. Cyber 
terrorism may include a simple broadcast of 
information on the Internet about bomb attacks 
which may happen at a particular time in the 
future. [2] Cyber terrorists are people who 
threaten and coerce an individual, an 
organization or even a government by 
attacking them through computers and 
networks for their personal, political or social 
benefits.

E. Online Gambling
[8]On-line gambling offered by thousands of 
websites that have their servers hosted abroad. 
These websites are the one of the most 
important sites for money launderers.

F. Cyber Stalking
[9] ‘Stalking’ as has been defined in Oxford 
dictionary, means “pursuing stealthily”. Cyber 
stalking is following an individual’s or 
organization’s whereabouts on the Internet. 
These may include sending threatening or nonthreatening messages on the victim’s bulletin 
boards, which may be by social networking 
sites or even through e-mails. According to 
David Wall [2], one of the prevalent forms of 
Cybercrime is Cyber stalking. This is basically 
a crime where the individual is constantly 
harassed by another individual example, 
sending constant mails to any individual with 
unsuitable contents and threat messages.

G. E-mail Spoofing and Phishing Scams
Cyber criminals often spoof e-mails of known 
and unknown individuals. [9]E-mail spoofing 
basically means sending an e-mail from a 
source while it appears to have been sent from 
another e-mail. E-mail spoofing is a very 
common cause of monetary damages. [10]The 
act that attempts to obtain vital information 
like passwords, details of credit cards by 
pretending to be a trustworthy entity in an 
electronic company is called phishing. 
Phishing e-mails are likely to contain hyperlinks to the sites containing malwares.